With Java 11, things are slightly different.
So we still have a policy file,
although that's now here in conf/security/java.policy.
So in Java 11, there is really only the SDK.
There is no separate Java runtime, that's why the policy file is here.
Also, when we look in the policy file, there is no extensions directory anymore,
so the policy file no longer covers that.
There are some other differences as well.
So the policy file covers the Bootstrap class loader and that
grants everything all permission essentially.
There is also a policy file for the platform class loader,
and the permissions for the platform class loader are specified by a default
policy file and we'll take a look at that in the moment.
Remember that on Java 11 we are loading modules.
Each modules classes are assigned a unique protection domain.
These modules are identified using the JRT URL schemes,
so the Java runtime URL scheme,
and these modules are only granted permissions necessary for them to
function correctly and that's not necessarily all permissions.
So this default policy file lives here,
it's in JAVA_HOME/lib/security/default.policy.
So let's take a look at this default policy file and briefly add these modules.
So this is the Java 11 policy file, so it's very similar to the 1 for Java 8,
but notice there is no EXT entry here,
so we're not granting things in the EXT directory or permissions
because the EXT directory essentially no longer exists.
There is also this default policy file, and in here,
we'll find grants for a code base with the JRT URL protocol
and this protocol identifies modules,
so the java.compiler module gets given all permissions,
the java.net.http module gets given certain permissions,
and so on and so forth,
and you can scan through here and see what modules are given what permissions.
So what is this JRT protocol?
Well, it's a way of reaching inside the modules to discover what's there.
The module file format itself is not documented and that's because it
might change in the future unlike the Java file format,
which is just zip falls.
So we need a way of interrogating those modules,
and the JRT protocol is a way of doing that.
So let's briefly look at some code that let us do that.
So here,
we have a helper function called readJrtModules that we're going to complete.
And in here, I'll need a try/catch block,
and this catch will catch FileSystemNotFoundException,
and this exception will be thrown if the JRT protocol
doesn't work in our environment.
Typically because you're running on a JDK previous to Java 9.
So if this happens, we can just print out the message, Could not read modules.
So to get access to the built‑in modules, I can use the pre‑existing URL.
So there is a URL,
jrt:/modules that gives me access to this module file system if you like.
Then once I have that, I can print out all the modules referenced by this path,
so we can call files.list, passing it the path,
and for each file referenced by this path,
print out the name of that file.
Now let's just add a header and a footer to this.
And then if I run this code and I'm running on Java
11 here and look at the output,
we get to see the list of all the modules on my system.
And notice here, corresponding to the policy file is a java.compiler module,
which is referenced here.
There is a java.net.http module, it's also referenced here.
So here we can see how the JRT protocol can be used to identify a module and then how we can specify permissions within that module.